---
description: Stability mechanisms explained
---

# xUSD Stability

## Supply fees

Each vault has a supply fee. This can be adjusted via governance to effect the demand on xUSD. For example, if it is too cheap there could be an oversupply in xUSD causing the peg to break to the down side.

## Redemption

The redemption mechanism allows **1 xUSD token to be redeemed for $1 of underlying collateral, at all times**. This means if the peg is trading below the $1 target, people are able to buy on a DEX and instantly profit on the arbitrage opportunity. [Read more about redemptions.](redemptions.md)

## xUSD Backstop

Anyone is able to stake xUSD that can be used in liquidations by keepers. Stakers will receive the discounted collateral from the liquidaiton, a portion of fees generated by redemptions & liquidations, and other incentives over time.

## Isolated Risk Vaults

Each vault is isolated from the other. This means if one asset price tanks, rugs, or otherwise fails to serve as decent collateral, it will only effect a small portion of xUSD in supply. There are "tier 1" assets like Algo, goBTC, goETH that are all strong collateral types. These vaults will have the highest debt ceilings, while other more risky vaults have lower caps.

## Use cases & Other mechanisms

As more use cases & stability mechanisms are developed, a list will be found here.

## Other resources

AlgoHQ Interview - ["When xBacked launches, what strategies are you thinking of to make sure from day 1, it stays at $1?"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eM7TyelPA8c\&start=1577)

JT Invests in you Interview - ["What mechanisms do you have in place to help the stability of xUSD?"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv1ktW2lk0I\&start=670)
