---
description: Notes on the tokens for the xBacked protocol.
---

# Token Utility

xBacked does **not allow you to passively stake either xUSD or the protocol governance token.** Below it is explained how fees are distributed to participants.

## **xUSD Token**

The xUSD token is a USD pegged stable coin backed by ALGO. The xBacked protocol always considers **one xUSD token to be $1 USD.**

Staking xUSD requires those tokens to be used in liquidations executed by the protocol. The fees from this action is then distributed proportionately.

### xUSD Price Peg

To maintain a stable value for xUSD the following methods are used:

* Over collaterization of approved forms of collateral (beginning with ALGO). 1 xUSD token is backed by **more than $1 USD of collateral.** This is maintained through [liquidations](../product/liquidations/).
* Arbitrage when xUSD is discounted: if the price of xUSD is trading at a discount (below $1 USD) users are able to purchase it, and repay debt at a cheaper rate. As participants purchase xUSD the price rises
* Arbitrage when xUSD is trading at a premium: if the price of xUSD is trading at a premium (above $1 USD) participants could deposit collateral to mint xUSD to then sell on the open market. This selling of xUSD reduces the price.
* Redemption: [read about redemption here](../product/redemptions.md).

## The X Governance Token

This is the token used in governance of the xBacked protocol. Staking this token on the protocol will not receive a share of the xUSD fees generated by the protocol until a DAO vote is passed for this.

There are no guarantees that the governance token has any value, whatsoever.
